# Constants

**Constants** are fixed values that do not change during the execution of a program. Unlike variables, once a constant is defined and assigned a value, that value cannot be changed. Constants are useful for representing values that should remain the same throughout the program, such as mathematical constants or set limits.

In C, you can define a constant using the `const` keyword before the variable’s data type.

```c
const data_type NAME = value;
```

- **const**: Indicates that the variable’s value cannot be changed after initialization.
- **data_type**: The type of the constant (such as `int` or `float`).
- **NAME**: The name of the constant. 
> By convention, constant names are often written in **UPPERCASE** to distinguish them from variables.
- **= value**: The initial value assigned to the constant.

Alternatively, you can define constants using the preprocessor directive `#define`.

```c
#define NAME value
```

## Examples
- Create a constant integer named **MAX_USERS** and assign it the value **100**.

```c
const int MAX_USERS = 100;
```
Attempting to modify `MAX_USERS` later in the program will cause a compilation error.
```c
MAX_USERS = 150; // Error: assignment of read-only variable 'MAX_USERS'
```
- Create a constant floating-point value named **PI** and assign it the value **3.14159**.
```c
const float PI = 3.14159;
```
- Create a constant integer named **DAYS_IN_WEEK** and assign it the value **7**.
```c
const int DAYS_IN_WEEK = 7;
```
- Using `#define` to create the same constants.
```c
    #define MAX_USERS 100
    #define PI 3.14159
    #define DAYS_IN_WEEK 7
```

## Practice
- Think of **three real-world values** that should remain constant throughout a program. Write C code to define each value as a constant using both the `#define` and `const`.
